Why Learn another programming Language?
=======================================

Python is a nice language for beginning programming for several reasons.
First the syntax is sparse, and clear. Second, the underlying model of
how objects and variables work is very consistent. Third, you can write
powerful and interesting programs without a lot of work. However, Python
is representative of one kind of language, called a dynamic language.
You might think of Python as being fairly informal. There are other
languages, like C++ and Java that are more formal.

These languages have some advantages of their own. First, is speed: For
very large programs C++ and Java are going to give you the best
performance. Second is their maintainability. A lot of what makes Python
easy to use is that you must remember certain things. For example if you
set variable ``x`` to reference a turtle, and forget later that ``x`` is
a turtle but try to invoke a string method on it, you will get an error.
C++ protects you by forcing you to be upfront and formal about
the kind of object each variable is going to refer to.

In one sense Python is representative of a whole class of languages,
sometimes referred to as “scripting languages.” Other languages in the
same category as Python are Ruby and Perl. C++ is representative of
what I will call industrial strength languages. Industrial strength
languages are good for projects with several people working on the
project where being formal and careful about what you do may impact lots
of other people. Languages in this category include Java, C, C# and Ada.

Programming languages will always change. As the field of computer
science advances there will be new programming languages and you will
need to learn them. It is important to learn several programming
languages so that you know what to expect. There are certain features
that most programming languages have in common; variables, loops,
conditionals, functions. And there are some features that are unique. If
you know what is common in languages that is a good place to start.

Why Learn C++? Why not Java or Javascript?
---------------------------------

    - C++ influenced many programming languages such as Java, C# and other newer versions of C.

    - C++ introduced object-oriented programming. Among other things, C++ supports the four primary features of OOP: abstraction, inheritance, polymorphism and encapsulation.

    - C++ is industrial strength used for large systems by large groups of people.

    - C++ is better in interacting directly with the hardware.

C++ is an enormous language and is very powerful. We will be using C++ throughout the semester to write interesting codes.
